Hey, guys.
In this video, I'm going to walk you through the solution for the Calculator Layout Challenge, so we know
that this is what we're aiming for, right?
This is what it should look like on portrait
and this is what it should look like in landscape.
Notice a couple of things here.
Firstly, we've got nicely stacked rows and columns,
right?
So it makes it a perfect opportunity to use these StackViews that we've learned about. The other things
are a couple of small details.
Notice how
between each of these buttons, there's a very, very small gap in between.
So we're going to have to take into account of that when we create our layout.
And finally, also notice how this zero inside what seems to be a label is actually indented from the
right.
It's not glued to the right edge.
There's a little bit of space there.
So let's think about some of these things and try and layout our interface.
So, of course, we're gonna go to our Main.storyboard.
And here you should see that I've already created, essentially, the User Interface that you are aiming
for.
So this is very handy because it means that everything is really pretty much pixel perfect, whereas in
reality, you probably wouldn't get access to a file that's already been laid out for you,
so you might end up with things that are a little bit more misplaced and, you know, sized kind of differently.
And it's your job to use these rules in these constraints to bring it together and make it look the
way you want it to.
So the first thing we notice about our User Interface is that it's really regular.
There's a lot of rows and a lot of columns.
So let's start off by creating some StackViews.
So this seems like a natural stack, right?
So if I'm holding down my command key and I'm selecting all four of these buttons, then I can simply
go ahead and embed them into a StackView like this.
And because they are roughly along the same horizontal line, they get embedded into this nice, neat, little
horizontal stack.
Now, don't worry if at this point you see it's completely messed up the user interface.
The point is not to keep it pixel perfect every step of the way because as we change these rules and
as we apply new constraints and new StackViews, it's obviously going to evolve and change.
All that matters is that the final thing looks like this.
And in the process, we're going to be messing it up even more than this.
So now that I've created one horizontal stack, it kind of seems to make sense that if I have one row
here, one row here, one row here,
row here, row here, row here.
So I have five rows of buttons here.
Now, I'm going to go ahead and embed each of these rows into a StackView.
And now you should end up with five stack views.
We've got five horizontal stacks and this label at the very top.
Now, if we go ahead and select each of the five stack views, as well as the label at the top, and drop
all of these into a StackView, then it's going to create a vertical stack. Now, our interface is pretty
much completely messed up, but that's not a problem, it's now laid out in roughly the relationship that
we want.
So all we have to do now is to add some constraints on top.
Firstly, our vertical StackView which contains all of the rows is gonna need to go to all the edges.
So we're gonna put 0, 0, 0, 0, so that it gets stretched and fit to the entire size of the screen. Now, the
next thing to address is some of the properties of this stock view.
So, for example, notice how at the moment the spacing is massive between each of these rows.
It's like 81.
Instead, we only want that small space that you see here, right,
which let's just call it one pixel and let's see how that looks.
So let's go ahead and change the spacing to one pixel. And you can see that this part now looks pretty
much like the outcome that we want.
But for some reason, there's a big gap here between these top parts and the bottom parts.
So how can we make it distributed more evenly?
Well, you might remember that we can change the distribution of the stack, so that it's filled equally
like so.
And the alignment instead of making it leading so everything all squished up to the left, we can also
change it to Fill, so that it fills the entire space that it's got access to which is the entire width
of the screen.
Now, at the moment, if we look at each of these rows they look a little bit messed up, right?
So how can we make them look like the way that we saw in the README file, like this, evenly distributed
and filled to take up the entire space?
Well, we, of course, have to change some of the properties for each of these StackViews.
So let's start with the top one
and we're going to change the alignment from top to fill.
We're going to change the distribution to fill equally so that they take up an even amount of space
along that horizontal row.
So that's now looking pretty good, right?
And if we want apply the same things to the rest of the StackViews, then all we have to do is select
them by holding down shift.
And now we've got all four stack views which we're going to change the alignment to film and the distribution
to fill equally.
So we're getting pretty close to what we've got in the README file, right?
So now the only one that looks pretty weird is this bottom one because in the README file in the example,
we kind of had the zero button taking up twice as much space as these two.
So there are certain ways that you can set this or the simplest way is actually to just embed these
two into their own StackView.
So now if we look at this bottom row, we have two items which are meant to fill equally. So this width
and this width is meant to be equal.
And then if we go into this second horizontal stack view, and we make it also fill equally, then we get
the effect that we want which is where the zero takes up as much space as these two buttons, and everything
is now more or less aligned.
Now if you're noticing that on the iPhone 11 or the X series, canvasses and it's not going all the way
down to the bottom, the reason for this is because for our main vertical stack view, we set the constraints
so that they would go to all four edges. But remember that on the iPhone X series, there's actually a
sort of home button of sorts here where the user can swipe up, so that they can go back to the home screen.
So this area in black here is known as the safe area. But if you wanted the bottom of this stack view
to go all the way to the edge, then you can double click on this and change that from safe area bottom
to superview bottom, and change that constant to zero so that there's no distance between them, and then
you end up with this kind of effect.
Now, it depends on you really because, usually, it's not a good idea to put User Interactive Elements into
the safe area because it makes it really confusing when the user is trying to dismiss your app going to
home but, instead, they end up pressing on zero or the dot.
So I'm going to go ahead and select that constraint and change it back so that the stack view bottom
is equal to the safe area bottom with zero pixel distance, like this. And I'm going to show you how to
address the next thing which is,
notice how our zero here is right up to the edge here.
There is literally no distance between it and the right edge. But in the README file, you can see that
there's clearly a big gap here,
so it looks a little bit better.
Now how can we do this?
Well, at the moment, we've got our label inside our stack view and it is being asked to fill the entire
width
right?
That's what this Alignment Fill tells it to do.
But if we wanted this to have a little bit of a gap but none of these other rows to have a gap, then
we have to embed this label into its own view.
Now, it's kind of inside a container.
And let me just go ahead and make the background of this container see-through, so that it doesn't actually
affect our label. And then our label that's inside the view can then be asked to have some constraints.
So, for example, we could set the constraints, so that it's zero from the top, zero from the bottom, and
then 20 from the left and 20 from the right.
And now if we add our constraints, you can see that we're now getting that little indentation there inside
our stack view. And that's it.
That's the solution to this challenge.
If you struggled with this challenge, I recommend playing around with this interface seeing if you can
remove the stack views, create new stack views, maybe switch things around a bit, and just make it a few times
and until you really understand what's going on here and what each of these settings and properties
do. And just mess around with it. There's nothing that can really break.
So change it up to change, the alignment, change the distribution, change the axis.
See what happens until you get a good grasp of how this works.